# Overview

This repository contains the implementation of an Amirim project exploring the oculomotor integrator of goldfish. You are welcome to read the [final project](https://github.com/yuval-rubin1/Amirim-Project/blob/main/Amirim_Project%20-%20Yuval%20Rubin.pdf) in the repository. 

This project is mainly based on 3 papers:

1. Functional dissection of circuitry in a neural integrator
   - Authors: Emre Aksay, Itsaso Olasagasti, Brett D Mensh, Robert Baker, Mark S Goldman, David W Tank
   - Published in Nature Neuroscience, 2007
   - [Link to paper](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2803116/)
2. Fixational drift is driven by diffusive dynamics in central neural circuitry
    - Authors: Nadav Ben-Shushan, Nimrod Shaham, Mati Joshua, Yoram Burak
    - Published in Nature Communications, 2022
    - [Link to paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-022-29201-y)
3. Predicting modular functions and neural coding of behavior from a synaptic wiring diagram
    - Authors: Ashwin Vishwanathan, Alex Sood, Jingpeng Wu, Alexandro D. Ramirez, Runzhe Yang, Nico Kemnitz, Dodam Ih, Nicholas Turner, Kisuk Lee, Ignacio Tartavull, William M. Silversmith, Chris S. Jordan, Celia David, Doug Bland, Amy Sterling, H. Sebastian Seung, Mark S. Goldman, Emre R. F. Aksay & the Eyewirers
    - Published in Nature Neuroscience, 2024
    - [Link to paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-024-01784-3)

You are encouraged to read the README.md file in each sub directory for more details about the implementation and usage of the code.

# Requirements and Setup

First, clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yuval-rubin1/Amirim-Project.git
cd Amirim-Project
```

To run the code in this directory, install dependencies using pip:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You can also use a virtual environment to manage dependencies:

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


# Usage
The main directory contains the `analyze_msd.py` file. This script is used to analyze the Mean Squared Displacement (MSD) data generated by eye position simulations. 

To run the analysis, use the following command:

```bash
python analyze_msd.py <npy_filename> <analysis_type>
```

Where:
- `<npy_filename>`: The name of the .npy file containing the MSD data
- `<analysis_type>`: The type of analysis to perform. Options are:
  - `ou`: For Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process fitting (meant for the connectome-based model)
  - `linear`: For linear regression fitting (meant for the 2007 model)

Each of the sub directories contains a different model implementation. To run a specific model, navigate to the corresponding directory and use the provided README.md file for instructions.

# 2007 Model
This directory contains the implementation of the the models offered by Goldman and NBS (Nadav Ben-Shushan) in the above papers. The code is based on the equations and parameters provided in the papers, as well as additional data files provided by NBS.

# Connectome-based Model
This directory contains implementation of connectome-based model related functions. It uses code and data created by the original authors of the 2024 paper as well as modifications made to fit the needs of this project.
